Add langchain tutorial (#2777)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/cookbooks/langchain.mdx

# .env

MEILI_HTTP_ADDR="your Meilisearch host"
MEILI_API_KEY="your Meilisearch API key"
OPENAI_API_KEY="your OpenAI API key"
```

Now that you have your environment variables available, create a `setup.py` file with some boilerplate code:

```python
# setup.py

import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv # remove if not using dotenv
from langchain.vectorstores import Meilisearch
from langchain.embeddings.openai import OpenAIEmbeddings
from langchain.document_loaders import JSONLoader

load_dotenv() # remove if not using dotenv

# exit if missing env vars
if "MEILI_HTTP_ADDR" not in os.environ:
    raise Exception("Missing MEILI_HTTP_ADDR env var")
if "MEILI_API_KEY" not in os.environ:
    raise Exception("Missing MEILI_API_KEY env var")
if "OPENAI_API_KEY" not in os.environ:
    raise Exception("Missing OPENAI_API_KEY env var")

# Setup code will go here 👇
```

## Importing documents and embeddings

Now that the project is ready, import some documents in Meilisearch. First, download this small movies dataset:

<ButtonLink as="a" id="downloadMoviesLite" href="https://gist.github.com/Strift/1524ab5e2015e50bbcb215fb4d950a38" download="movies-lite.json">movies-lite.json</ButtonLink>

> Then, update the setup.py file to load the JSON and store it in Meilisearch. You will also use the OpenAI text search models to generate our vector embeddings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, update the setup.py file to load the JSON and store it in Meilisearch. You will also use the OpenAI text search models to generate vector embeddings.
```

## Performing similarity search

Your database is now populated with the data from the movies dataset. Create a new `search.py` file to make a semantic search query: searching for documents using similarity search.

```python
# search.py

import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from langchain.vectorstores import Meilisearch
from langchain.embeddings.openai import OpenAIEmbeddings
import meilisearch

load_dotenv()

# You can use the same code as `setup.py` to check for missing env vars

# Create the vector store
client = meilisearch.Client(
    url=os.environ.get("MEILI_HTTP_ADDR"),
    api_key=os.environ.get("MEILI_API_KEY"),
)
embeddings = OpenAIEmbeddings()
vector_store = Meilisearch(client=client, embedding=embeddings)

# Make similarity search
embedder_name = "custom"
query = "superhero fighting evil in a city at night"
results = vector_store.similarity_search(
    query=query,
    embedder_name=embedder_name,
    k=3,
)

# Display results
for result in results:
    print(result.page_content)
```

> Run our file. If everything works, You should see an output like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `search.py`. If everything is working correctly, you should see an output like this:
```

<Capsule intent="tip">

This guide uses Meilisearch’s Python SDK. But you can use Meilisearch with almost any language.

</Capsule>

## Requirements

This tutorial assumes a basic understanding of Python and LangChain. Beginners to LangChain will still find the tutorial accessible.

- Python (LangChain requires >= 3.8.1 and < 4.0) and the pip CLI
- A Meilisearch >= 1.6 instance running — see our [quick start](/learn/getting_started/cloud_quick_start)
- An OpenAI API key — [get yours](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys)

## Setting up a Meilisearch instance

After creating your Meilisearch instance, make sure to grab your Meilisearch host and an API key with write permissions.

<Capsule intent="warning">

In production, we recommend using different API keys holding only the minimal permissions to operate.

</Capsule>

Enable the vector store feature. On Meilisearch Cloud, enable it via your project’s Settings page. For self-hosted Meilisearch, activate the vector store with the [API route](/learn/experimental/vector_search#activate-vector-search).

## Creating the project

Create a folder for our project with an empty `main.py` file for your code.

> Before writing the code, install the necessary dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before writing any code, install the necessary dependencies:
```

```bash
pip install langchain openai meilisearch python-dotenv
```

<Capsule intent="tip">

This guide uses python-dotenv to load environment variables from a `.env` file. Feel free to load them in any other convenient way for you.

</Capsule>

> If using dotenv, first create a .env to store our credentials:

Reviewer: The user already installed dotenv, so you can skip the "If" and just give the instructions.

```
# .env

MEILI_HTTP_ADDR="your Meilisearch host"
MEILI_API_KEY="your Meilisearch API key"
OPENAI_API_KEY="your OpenAI API key"

> 
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

````

> Now that you have your environment variables available, create a `setup.py` file with some boilerplate code for your example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have your environment variables available, create a `setup.py` file with some boilerplate code:
```

```python
# setup.py

import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv # remove if not using dotenv
from langchain.vectorstores import Meilisearch
from langchain.embeddings.openai import OpenAIEmbeddings
from langchain.document_loaders import JSONLoader

load_dotenv() # remove if not using dotenv

# exit if missing env vars
if "MEILI_HTTP_ADDR" not in os.environ:
    raise Exception("Missing MEILI_HTTP_ADDR env var")
if "MEILI_API_KEY" not in os.environ:
    raise Exception("Missing MEILI_API_KEY env var")
if "OPENAI_API_KEY" not in os.environ:
    raise Exception("Missing OPENAI_API_KEY env var")

# Setup code will go here 👇
```

## Importing documents and embeddings

Now that the project is ready, import some documents in Meilisearch. First, download this small movies dataset:

> [movies-lite.json](https://gist.github.com/Strift/1524ab5e2015e50bbcb215fb4d950a38)

Reviewer: If you want users to download it, you can use an `<a>` tag with a couple of special attributes. Check out the self-hosted quick start for an example.

Also, I think it might look better if move the link so it's part of the previous paragraph.

> Then, update the setup.py file to load the JSON and store it in Meilisearch. We will also use the OpenAI text search models to generate our vector embeddings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, update the setup.py file to load the JSON and store it in Meilisearch. You will also use the OpenAI text search models to generate our vector embeddings.

```

> To use vector search, we need to set the embedders index setting. In our case, we are using an `userProvided` source which requires to specify the size of the vectors in a `dimensions` field. Default model used by `OpenAIEmbeddings()` is `text-embedding-ada-002`, which has 1,536 dimensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use vector search, we need to set the embedders index setting. In this case, you are using an `userProvided` source which requires to specify the size of the vectors in a `dimensions` field. The default model used by `OpenAIEmbeddings()` is `text-embedding-ada-002`, which has 1,536 dimensions.
```

```python
# setup.py

# previous code

# Load documents
loader = JSONLoader(
    file_path="./movies-lite.json",
    jq_schema=".[] | {id: .id, overview: .overview, title: .title}",
    text_content=False,
)
documents = loader.load()
print("Loaded {} documents".format(len(documents)))

# Store documents in Meilisearch
embeddings = OpenAIEmbeddings()
embedders = { 
        "custom": {
            "source": "userProvided",
            "dimensions": 1536
        }
    }
embedder_name = "custom" 
vector_store = Meilisearch.from_documents(documents=documents, embedding=embeddings, embedders=embedders, embedder_name=embedder_name)

print("Started importing documents")
```

> Your Meilisearch instance will now contain your documents. Meilisearch runs tasks like document import asynchronously, so you might need to wait a bit for documents to be available.

Reviewer: Perhaps a good idea to add a link to the tasks tutorial?

## Performing similarity search

> Your database should now contain the movies. Create a new `search.py` file to make a semantic search query: searching for documents using similarity search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your database is now populated with the data from the movies dataset. Create a new `search.py` file to make a semantic search query: searching for documents using similarity search.
```

{"id": 268, "title": "Batman", "overview": "Batman must face his most ruthless nemesis when a deformed madman calling himself \"The Joker\" seizes control of Gotham's criminal underworld."}
```

Congrats 🎉 You managed to make a similarity search using Meilisearch as a LangChain vector store.

## Going further

Using Meilisearch as a LangChain vector store allows you to load documents and search for them in different ways:

- [Import documents from text](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/vectorstores/meilisearch#adding-text-and-embeddings)
- [Similarity search with score](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/vectorstores/meilisearch#similarity-search-with-score)
- [Similarity search by vector](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/vectorstores/meilisearch#similarity-search-by-vector)

> For additional information, make sure to consult:

Reviewer: For additional information on what? Also, I'd suggest moving the link so it's part of this paragraph.

```suggestion
For additional information, consult:
```
